it is 20 minutes to midday in Israel and
we're cutting to the live pictures of
the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu who is hosting the US
President Joe Biden let's listen the
world sees that support and the moral
Clarity that you have demonstrated from
the moment Israel was attacked you've
rightly drawn a clear line between the
forces of civilization and the forces of
barbarism you described what Hamas did
as sheer evil it is exactly that Hamas
murdered children in front of their
parents and parents in front of their
children they burnt people alive they
raped and murdered women they beheaded
soldiers they they
search for the secret hiding places
where parents hid their children and
just imagine Mr President the the fear
and the Panic of those little
children in their last
moments
as the monsters discovered found out
their hiding places Kamas kidnapped
women children elderly Holocaust
survivals I know you share our outrage
on this and I know you share our
determination to bring these people
back on October
7th Hamas murdered 1,400 Israelis maybe
more this is in a country of fewer than
10 million people this would be
equivalent to over 50,000 Americans
murdered in a single day that's
2911 that is why October 7th is another
day that will live in
infamy Mr President you rightly said
that Hamas is worse than
Isis the German chancellor who visited
here yesterday said that Hamas were the
new Nazis you're both right and just as
a civilized World United to defeat the
Nazis and United to defeat Isis the
Civilized world must unite to defeat
Hamas I can assure you Mr President
Israel is United to defeat Hamas and we
will defeat Hamas and remove this
terrible threat from our
lives the forces of civilization will
prevail for our sake for your sake for
peace and Security in our region and in
the
world Mr President for the people of
Israel there's only one thing better
than having a true friend like you
standing with Israel and that is having
you standing in Israel your visit here
is the first visit of an American
president in Israel at a time of War it
is deeply deeply
moving it speaks of the depth of your
personal commitment to Israel it speaks
to the depth of your personal commitment
to the future of the Jewish people
and the one and only Jewish state so I
know I speak for all the people of
Israel when I say thank you Mr President
thank you for standing with Israel today
tomorrow and
always Mr Prime Minister thank you very
much look folks uh I wanted to be here
today uh for a simple reason I want the
people of Israel the people of the world
to know where the United States stand
hands I've had my great secretary of
state here he's been here for a lot but
I wanted to personally come and make
that
clear terrorist group Hamas has
slaughtered as been pointed out over
1,300 people and is not hyperbole Su
just slaughtered
slaughtered and uh including 31
Americans is part of
that and uh they've taken scores of
people hostage including children you
said imagine what those children hiding
from Hamas were thinking it's beyond my
comprehension be able to imagine what
they're
thinking beyond my
comprehension they're committed evils
that and atrocities that U make Isis
look uh somewhat more
rational you know um Americans are
grieving with you they really
are and Americans are wor worried
Americans are worried because we know
there's a this is not an easy field to
navigate what you have to
do but uh the fact is that Israel as
they respond to these attacks it seems
to me that have to continue to
ensure that you have what you need to
defend
yourselves and we're going to make sure
that occurs as you
know and we have to also bear in mind
that AAS does not represent all the
Palestinian
people and uh it has brought them only
suffering you know uh years ago I asked
the Secretary of State when he and I
working in the Senate to write something
for man he said uh he wrote a line that
uh I think is
appropriate he said uh it's not we lead
uh not just uh well I won't go into it
I'll wait later taking too much time but
the point is this that uh um I was
deeply saddened an outrage by the uh
explosion at the hospital in Gaza
yesterday and based on what I've seen it
appears as though it was done by the
other team not not you but there's a lot
of people out there not sure so we got a
lot we got to overcome a lot of things
and also means encouraging
life-saving uh capacity to help the
Palestinians were innocent caught in the
middle of this and uh well anyway that's
that's who we are not just me but I mean
that's who the United States is and uh
um it's just not the example of our
power is the power our example it's
almost as important the world's looking
we uh Israel has a value set like the
United States does and other democracies
and uh
and they're looking to see what we're
going to do so uh Mr Prime Minister I'm
very happy to be back in Israel with you
thank you for having me and uh I'm
looking forward to having a thorough
discussion about where everybody goes
from here but thank you and uh I want to
say to the people of
Israel their courage their commitment
their bravery is uh is stunning it's
really stunning I'm proud of to be here
thank
[Music]
you okay you've just been listening to
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu and US President Joe Biden
with their opening statements at the
outset of this uh visit of support by
Biden for Israel uh couple of the um
headlines as we bring in alzer's Alan
fiser who's standing by for us in Tel
Aviv covering uh this trip couple of the
quotes alen um from the Israeli Prime
Minister uh Netanyahu he praised Biden's
moral Clarity he framed the war in Gaza
as a conflict between the forces ofil
civilization and the forces of
barbery uh he appeared to do some some
math uh and on the death tolls and
compared essentially the the death toll
in Israel to
um that's on the Netanyahu side and
highlights from Biden and then you'll to
you'll tell me Allan what you took away
from this uh Joe Biden says he was here
obviously to show support for Israel
um quote the hamas's atrocities make
Isis look somewhat more rational end
quote and also importantly um Biden
referenced
briefly the strike on the hospital in
Gaza that took place about 14 15 hours
ago now that killed 500 Palestinians and
he says from what he has seen from what
Biden has seen the hospital explosion
was caused by the other side the other
team I believe he said said end quote so
that was Biden saying as far as he's
concerned uh Israel did not carry out
that attack that's the state of play
those are the opening remarks Alan what
can you tell
us I I think uh what is clear is that
when the Americans said that their
National Security team would be looking
at what actually caused the explosion in
Gaza on Tuesday night uh that there
would be a longer inquiry it seems that
Joe Biden has already decided he knows
what happened by saying in a very poor
choice of words that the other team was
responsible he did say that he was
deeply outraged by what had happened and
concerned but this visit is an
extraordinary show of support for the
Israelis and essentially by Joe Biden
saying that he believes that it was a
misfiring rocket that caused the chaos
and the Carnage at the hospital in Gaza
that essentially there's now a green
light for Israel to do what it wants his
comparisons to ISA that was a very very
poor choice of words by the president to
even begin to consider that Isis uh was
rational if Donald Trump had said
something like that there would be
outrage for for days it was a very very
poor choice of words uh but it's clear
that that Joe Biden uh is giving his
support to whatever may come in the next
few days we're aware that there was talk
that the Israelis postponed the ground
war to allow Joe Biden to carry out this
visit but the suggestion obviously is
that in the next few days they we're
going to see a ground offensive just on
what Benjamin Netanyahu said it was
interesting that he did make the
comparison uh to 2911 Benjamin Netanyahu
has spent a great deal of time in the
United States he's aware of the American
psyche and by Plumbing into 911 he is uh
he knows what he's doing he he's
absolutely absolutely certain what he's
doing and there was that phrase where he
said not only is it great that Joe Biden
is standing with Israel it's great that
Joe Biden is standing in Israel because
as I say this is an extraordinary show
of support for Israel at this time
normally American presidents are calling
for restraint here is essentially Joe
Biden giving the green light to what may
happen in the next couple of days albeit
saying that there is a desperate need to
get humanitarian Aid into Gaza and get
innocent people out of Gaza
what's left for Biden to do I mean
Netanyahu and Biden have both made some
important statements here uh this was
only moments after Biden arrived in Tel
Aviv what else is he going to do during
this
trip well on his way back he's going to
be speaking to president CCE of Egypt
and president Mahmud abas of the
Palestinian Authority now the reason
he's going to speak to them on the phone
is that they canell uh the summit that
was due to be held along onside the King
of Jordan in a man because they wanted
Joe Biden to call for a ceasefire and
it's clear that the Americans aren't at
that point whether it be a human
humanitarian ceasefire like the
Secretary General of the UN has called
for in the last few hours or an absolute
ceasefire and the fact that he wasn't
prepared to put his name to that meant
that the the Arab leaders felt that they
would be complicit in whatever happens
in the next few days and so unusually
how often do you get a US president
being snubbed and particularly from a
close Ally like Jordan the Arab leaders
the three of them decided to walk away
now everything has been Complicated by
what has happened over the last 24 hours
at the hospital in Gaza and that makes
this trip much more Dynamic but what is
clear is that Joe Biden's support for
Israel that he expressed hours after
what happened on the 7eventh of this
month is
unwavering and and he again promised
Israel whatever they needed to defend
themselves that's alzer's Alan Fischer
reporting just moments after we heard
from the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu and the US President Joe Biden
who has just landed in Israel to show
his support to Netanyahu and to Israel